Martin Luther himself admits that Christians owe their Bible to the efforts of the Catholic Church:
We concede - as we must - that so much of what they say is true: that the papacy has God's Word and the office of the apostles, and that we have received Holy Scripture, Baptism, the Sacrament, and the pulpit from them. What would we know of these if it were not for them? 16
Luther's statement supports our argument that without the decisions of the Church, we would not know which books of the Bible are inspired.
St. Augustine puts it bluntly: I would put no faith in the Gospels unless the authority of the Catholic Church directed me to do so. 17
St. Augustine recognizes that the only way to know for sure which books are inspired is to accept the teaching authority of the Catholic Church.
CRUCIAL POINTS
(1) Historically
The Bible is a Catholic book. The New Testament was written, copied, and collected by Catholic Christians. The official canon of the books of the Bible was authoritatively determined by the Catholic Church in the fourth century. Thus it is from the Catholic Church that the Protestants have a Bible at all.
(2) Logically
The Church with the authority to determine the infallible Word of God, must have the infallible authority and guidance of the Holy Spirit. As we have seen, apart from the declarations of the Catholic Church, we have absolutely no guarantee that what is in the Bible is the genuine Word of God.
To trust the Bible is to trust the authority of the Church which guarantees the Bible. It is contradictory for Protestants to accept the Bible and yet reject the authority of the Catholic Church that gave it to them.
Logically, Protestants should not quote the Bible as authoritative, for they have no way of determining which books are inspired - unless, of course, they accept the teaching authority of the Catholic Church.






It is contradictory
for Protestants to
accept the Bible
and yet reject the
authority of the
Catholic Church
that preserved it
for them.


l6 Luther's Works (St. Louis: Concordia Publishing, 196 1) Volume 24, 304.
17 Against the Letter of Mani, 5, 6; Jurgens, Volume 3, #1581.
