about the Eucharist, engage in cannibalism and violate the biblical prohibition on the drinking of blood. It was exactly this misunderstanding that led the unbelieving Jews and disciples in John 6 to reject Jesus when He spoke about the need to eat His body and drink His blood. The believing disciples were rewarded for their faith at the Last Supper. Jesus revealed to them that they would receive His body and blood in the sacrament of the Holy Eucharist, not in the bloody, cannibalistic way the unbelievers had imagined.
All the early Church Fathers be lieved in the Real Presence (see Appendix 1, page 8). Until the Reformation, all Christianity accepted the Real Presence of Christ in the Eucharist. Even Martin Luther affirmed the doctrine, and confirmed that the early Church Fathers unanimously taught the Real Presence:
of all the fathers, as many as you can name, not one has ever spoken about the sacrament as these fanatics do. None of them uses such an expression as, "It is simply bread and wine," or "Christ's body and blood are not present." Yet this subject is so frequently discussed by them, it is impossible that they should not at some time have let slip such an expression as, "It is simply bread," or "Not that the body of Christ is physically present," or the like, since they are greatly concerned not to mislead the people; actually, they simply proceed to speak as if no one doubted that Christ's body and blood are present. Certainly among so many fathers and so many writings a negative argument should have turned up at least once, as happens in other articles; but actually they Luther's Works (St. Louis: Concordia Publishing, 1961) Volume 37, 54. all stand uniformly and consistently on the affirmative side. Note that all the Churches that broke away hundreds of years before the Reformation (Orthodox, Coptic, Armenian) still believe in the Real Presence. Finally, mention some of the great Eucharistic miracles that God has given us to confirm the Real Presence of Christ in the Eucharist. Joan Cruz's Eucharistic Miracles' is an excellent resource for this purpose. Many of these miracles have been scientifi- cally verified.

<p>APPENDIX 1: EARLY CHURCH FATHERS ON THE EUCHARIST</p>
<p>St. Ignatius of Antioch, a disciple and contemporary of the Apostle John, wrote (around AD 110) concerning certain heretics:</p>
<blockquote>They abstain from the Eucharist and from prayer, because they do not confess that the Eucharist is the Flesh of our Savior Jesus Christ, Flesh which suffered for our sins and which the Father, in His goodness, raised up again.'</blockquote>
<p>In another letter St. Ignatius wrote,</p>
<blockquote>I desire the Bread of God, which is the Flesh of Jesus Christ ... and for drink I desire His Blood, which is love incorruptible.'</blockquote>
