30
We know that marriage is a good thing because it was instituted by God, and made a sacrament by Christ. We know that celibacy is good because it was praised by Jesus (Mt 19:10-12), and strongly recommended by St. Paul for those who would devote themselves entirely to the ministry (1 Cor 7:32-35). We all know that millions of Christians have led saintly lives as both celibate and married people.
THE TRUE CHURCH
Scandals in the Church are not an argument against the Catholic claim to be the true Church. In the OT, we find baby sacrifice and temple prostitution involving leaders of the OT religion (Jer 32:32-35; 2 Kgs 23:7). Of the twelve Apostles, one betrayed Christ, one denied Him, one refused to believe in His Resurrection, and they all abandoned Him at the Garden of Gethsemani.
The Catholic Church is both human and divine. Because it is human, it will have scandals. Because it is divine, it will last forever. Scandals are found in all denominations; they have nothing to do with the Catholic Church being the true Church.
What St. Paul wrote concerning the Jews applies also to Christians:
Rom 3:3-4: What if some were unfaithful? Does their faithlessness nullify the faithfulness of God? By no means!
Christ's faithfulness to His Church remains even when some of its members are unfaithful:
2 Tim 2:13: If we are faithless, he remains faithful—for he cannot deny himself.
Scandals do not prove that the Catho. Church is false. They only prove what obvious: that the Church contains sinners well as saints, tares along with the wheat. the parable of the wheat and the wee (Mt 13:24-30), Our Lord makes clear ti good and evil will exist side by side until t
end of time:
The kingdom of heaven maybe compared to a man who sowed good seed in his field; but while men were sleeping, his enemy came and sowed weeds among the wheat, and went away. So when the plants came up and bore grain, then the weeds appeared also. And the servants of the house-holder came and said to him, "Sir, did you not sow good seed in your field? How then has it weeds?" He said to them, "An enemy has done this." The servants said to him, "Then do you want us to go and gather them?" But he said, "No; lest in gathering the weeds you root up the wheat along with them. Let both grow together until the harvest; and at harvest time I will tell the reapers, Gather the weeds first and bind them in bundles to be burned, but gather the wheat into my barn."
Mt 13:47-48 also confirms that the Churc contains good and bad members alike:
Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a net which was thrown into the sea and gathered fish of every kind; when it was full, men the it ashore and sat down and sorted the good into vessels but threw away the bad.
35 The parallel construction of Matthew 16:1
identifies the kingdom of heaven as Christ's Chu: "I will build my church.... I will give you the key the kingdom of heaven...." Therefore, all the kingc parables in Matthew 13 are describing the Church. also: Matthew 21:33-34 and Luke 22:24-30.
